# TATA Virtual Internship through Forage

# TATA Data Visualisation Empowering Business with Effective Insights

The virtual experience programme is provided by Tata iQ or Tata Insights and Quants. I discover how passionate, multidisciplinary experts utilise data visualisation technologies like Tableau and Power BI to take on some of the most difficult business problems and uncover fascinating insights buried in the mountains of produced data.

The programme demonstrates the kind of issues dealt with by Tata Insights and Quants every day and makes an effort to imitate the difficulties an individual could have.

# Making questions relevant to CEO and CMO related to the problem Online Retail
The questions I drafted:

CEO

1. What is the relationship between the Quantity of items sold and the total Revenue?

2. How does the UnitPrice impact the overall Revenue?

3. How do customer behaviors differ across countries, and how can this information guide our expansion strategy?

4. In what ways does a customer's purchase history influence our revenue?


CMO

1. How do purchases from different countries influence our marketing strategies, and how can we use this information to customize our campaigns for various regions?

2. How does the purchasing history of customers (based on customer ID) shape our marketing strategies, and how can we leverage this information to target repeat buyers?

3. Which product has the highest sales, and how can we focus our marketing efforts to either promote this product further or boost sales of other products?
 
4. How does the pricing of items affect our marketing strategies?

----
# Data Extraction - 
The dataset has 9 columns namely,

1. InvoiceNo

2. StockCode

3. Description

4. Quantity

5. InvoiceDate

6. UnitPrice

7. CustomerID

8. Country

9. Revenue

The InvoiceNo column has the invoice number of each purchase made by customers. 

StockCode has the products stock code. 

Description has the products description and information. 

InvoiceDate has dates from when the purchase happened. 

UnitPrice has the price of the product. 

CustomerID tells us who purchased the product in numerical form. 

Country is where the customer resides in. 

We multiplied UnitPrice and Quantity to make the column Revenue.

----
# Data Cleaning - 
Done using conditional statements in Tableau

Conditional statements used:-

1. Filter Out Negative or Below 1 in Quantity Column - 
IF [Quantity] >= 1 THEN [Quantity] ELSE NULL END

2. Filter Out UnitPrice Below $0
IF [UnitPrice] >= 0 THEN [UnitPrice] ELSE NULL END

3. Create a Calculated Field for Revenue
[UnitPrice] * [Quantity]

----
# Selection of Appropriate Visualization according to the business scenario
1. time series of revenue of the entire year - line chart

2. top 10 countries with highest revenue - stacked bar chart

3. average revenue generated by each country. - barchart

4. information about the top 10 customers by revenue - column chart

5. insights on demand of the products in countries - map chart

----
# Making Visualization

----
# Giving Insight
1. Ireland and the surrounding areas has generated great revenue and the company has a significant customer base that we can tap into for expansion opportunities.

2. The top customers has an average revenue starting with $77,183 then \$56,157 then drastically falls from $13,000 to \$2,000 range.

3. Data such as profit can be used in future analysis to evaluate more of the business performance.

4. There is incomplete data in December but it shows a promising month since we can see a steady uptrend of revenue.


